Dot Net:-

Its a framework.

Just like you have all the departments of an enterprise under the one roof.

eg: Totyota. Nestle

Dot Net Framework Components:-

1-CLR (Common Language Runtime):-
It is responsible for all the executions of dot net framework.

2-JIT (Just in time compiler).
Compiler:-
To compile the whole code. DotNet, C++, Java

Interpreter:-
Line by Line compilation. eg: HTML, Python, Javascript

a-Pre-Jit: Compile whole code in one go whether something is changed or not. (Re-Build). (IL will always be generated everytime for all the projects in a solution). (Release).
b-Econo-Jit: Compiles only those methods which are changed or running at runtime and delete the copies of object code. (Clean-Build) (IL will only be generated for the changed projects but doesnt stored by the JIT).
c-Normal Jit: Compile only those methods which are changed or running at runtime and doest not delete the copies of object code. (Build) (IL will only be generated for the changed projects but it stores by the JIT as well).
				So that it can be used in future. (Development)

Legend: "-->" output

Compilation Process (Universal Process):-
	.Net Compiler --> IL--> JIT --> Object Code --> Linking --> Exe/dll

Compilation is project wise.

3-IL(Intermediate Language):-

Same Intermediate language is generated by the compiler for all the following languages to increase interoperability:-

C#.Net --> IL
VB.Net --> IL
F#.Net --> IL
C++.Net --> IL

4-CTS (Common Type System):-
Common types for all the Dot Net platform languages. eg: int, double,string,float,bool,byte,short,uint etc.

CLS (Common Language Specifications):-
Its a set of rules which are implemented by CTS.

GC (Garbage Collector):-
It delalocates the memory for the objects which are not in use or whose usage is not required.

it automatically calls the Destructor of the objects when they are not required.

As soon as the function finishes all the objects/variables used in that are destroyed by the GC.

MSCORELIB (Microsoft Core Libraries):-
Dot Net Libraries:-

eg:-
ADO.Net
Generics
Web.Mail
File.IO
System

etc.